# pfch2020
PFCH Final Project Fall 2020
<h1>New York City Crime Data Visualization<h1>

This project aims to explore criminal activity in New York City by using the dataset “NYPD Complaint Incident Level Data” provided by the New York Police Department (NYPD). The dataset provides a breakdown of every criminal complaint report filed in New York City by the NYPD from 2006 until the end of 2019. <br><br> With the dataset being very large, I used Python to create several scripts to 1) find out what types of offenses were reported to the police and how many of those offenses were reported and 2) to pull out specific offenses I wanted to look at and create a new CSV file. From this new CSV file, I used Tableau to create all my visualizations and created a Tableau story. <br><br> The first python script I created was used to count the occurences of the different types of offences reported. This script also sorted out the crimes by most occured to least. With this, I decided to look at the Top 10 most reported crimes. The second python script was used to extract data from the original csv file into a new csv file that was created using this script. I used "If" statements and pulled out data that only pertained to those Top 10 crimes. <br><br> This new csv file was imported into Tableau where I created a total of 13 visualizations. These visualizations can be found here <br><br><a href="https://public.tableau.com/views/NYCCrimeDataVisualization/CRIMEVISUALIZATIONFINAL?:language=en&:display_count=y&:origin=viz_share_link">NYC Crime Data Visualization</a>
